Migration to Quarkus (#135)
projectsyn/component-keycloak: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/explanations/migration-to-quarkus.adoc

= Migration to Quarkus

Keycloak v17 is https://www.keycloak.org/docs/17.0/upgrading/#default-distribution-is-now-powered-by-quarkus[changing their runtime] from https://www.wildfly.org[Wildfly] to https://quarkus.io[Quarkus].
This brings a complete new way of how the Keycloak container has to be https://www.keycloak.org/server/containers[deployed] (https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/tree/main/quarkus/container[Quarkus based Keycloak Image] vs the https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak-containers[Wildfly based image]) and https://www.keycloak.org/server/all-config[parameterized].

> While Wildfly was an application server for Java, Quarkus is just an Kubernetes Native Java stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Wildfly is a full-fledged application server for Java, Quarkus is a Kubernetes Native Java stack.
```

The Keycloak default image requires a "build" before startup.

> This can be automatized using the `--auto-build`, which is the default in the component by now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be automatized using the `--auto-build`, which is the default in the component.
```

This additional step can be removed by creating a https://www.keycloak.org/operator/customizing-keycloak[customized Keycloak image].

== New variables

> * `KC_HOSTNAME` containing the FQDN of the keycloak service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `KC_HOSTNAME` containing the FQDN of the Keycloak service.
```

  Verification can be turned off by using the parameters `--hostname-strict=false` and `--hostname-strict-https=false`.
  However for production the hostname verification should be tuned on!
* `KC_HTTP_RELATIVE_PATH` is `/` by Keycloak default.
  However the Helm chart contains the default value of `/auth`, so for upgrades there is no breaking change.

== Changed variables

* The Wildfily container did automatically create a truststore file out of PEM files existing in `/etc/x509/https`. Now the public and private key file must be defined in example `KC_HTTPS_CERTIFICATE_FILE=/etc/x509/https/tls.crt` and `KC_HTTPS_CERTIFICATE_KEY_FILE=/etc/x509/https/tls.key`.
* `KEYCLOAK_STATISTICS` is replaced by `KC_METRICS_ENABLED`.
* `JGROUPS_DISCOVERY_PROTOCOL` and `JGROUPS_DISCOVERY_PROPERTIES` are replaced by `JAVA_OPTS=-Djgroups.dns.query=keycloakx-headless` (vgl. https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/codecentric/keycloakx#dns_ping-service-discovery[Helm chart documentation]).

> * `PROXY_ADDRESS_FORWARDING` see https://www.keycloak.org/server/reverseproxy[Using a reverse proxy] and `KC_PROXY` for more information.

Reviewer: well, what's the change? Removed? Shouldn't it be listed below under "Removed variables" ?
```suggestion
* `PROXY_ADDRESS_FORWARDING` removed, see https://www.keycloak.org/server/reverseproxy[Using a reverse proxy] and `KC_PROXY` for more information.
```

* `KEYCLOAK_USER` is now `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN`
* `KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD` is now `KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD`
* `DB_DATABASE` is now `KC_DB_URL_DATABASE`
* `DB_USER` is now `KC_DB_USERNAME`
* `DB_PASSWORD` is now `KC_DB_PASSWORD`
* `DB_VENDOR` is now `KC_DB`
* `DB_ADDR` is now `KC_DB_URL_HOST`
* `DB_PORT` is now `KC_DB_URL_PORT`
* Theme path has changed from `/opt/jboss/keycloak/themes/` to `/opt/keycloak/themes/`.

> * `KEYCLOAK_WELCOME_THEME` is now `KC_SPI_THEME_WELCOME_THEME`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `KEYCLOAK_WELCOME_THEME` renamed to `KC_SPI_THEME_WELCOME_THEME`
```
